-- Simon:

make NetFlow data made available to researchers, but cannot be released due to
privacy issues. Graduate course on reprodicing research was mentioned.

-- Vaibhav

lack of incentive to reproduce work.

-- Ljubica and Edwin

No means to persuade the community to reproduce research. When there is
mismatch, reproducers are expected to show validation of mismatch with
previous work which is much harder.

-- Stefan

Companies have non-disclosure agreements to not make data available.

-- Johannes

A large data repository is a first step, but not enough. Datasets are
arbitrarily provided. @georg: ACM provides mechanism to upload digital objects
with the paper.

-- Ermias

What about privacy aspects of sharing data? @georg mentiones a disseration on
a related topic, @simon -- also research on deanonymization of data. EU
projects (such as METRICS) require released datasets comply data protection
rules. @georg -- privacy aspects cannot be solved by technology.

-- Simon

Storing large datasets with cloud providers (such as Amazon) is cheap and at
times free, because providers can charge for computation on the data later.

-- Ermias

Ethical issues? CS culture has ignored ethical issues for a long time.

-- Vaibhav

How is reproducibility outside of CS? @georg -- physicist are generally more
stringent with reproducibility. In situations of a mismatch, physicists look
at the underlying core model to understand the reason of the mismatch. @stefan
-- physicsts usually don't have a issue with users. @edwin -- how do folks
doing genetic studies handling reproducibility?

-- Quirin

Three levels of reproducibility.

-- Georg

Incentive is getting citations on a reproducible research. Can we encourage
authors to provide intermediate results. More valuable if you provide guidance
to produce similar dataset.


-- Johannes

No incentive to reproduce work. @georg -- need a taxonomy of aspects of
reproducibility.


-- Simon

PAM and IMC ask for papers that reproduce research. @Vaibhav -- Is it that
papers that reproduce work do not get submitted or they get rejected? @quirin
-- we have experience with papers that reproduced previous works getting
rejected because of lack of novelty. we didn't notice a paper in the last PAM
proceedings that had at least partial reproducibility.


-- Ljubica

Describing the methodology is more important

-- Quirin and Johannes

Perhaps a workshop colocated with SIGCOMM that solicits papers that reproduce
research. What criterea should we use to accept papers that reproduce research?


-- Georg

I would argue we don't need 'papers' that reproduce 'existing' papers.

-- Edwin

The dataset may not be useful for all studies. @Vaibhav -- Authors should be
encouraged to illustrate the limitations of the dataset.

-- Ljubica

How do we encourage reviewers to be check for reproducibility? @quirin --
perhaps have a reproducibility shepard for accepted papers to ensure artifacts
are made available.
